
Demo5 is a sample client/server gkrellm plugin and requires GKrellM 2.2.0.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

The comments in the source files are the tutorial you need to read so
here I'll just have a quick overview:
	A client/server capable gkrellm plugin will have two plugin .so files.

	1) One will be a gkrellm plugin.so installed in the normal gkrellm plugin
	locations.  This plugin.so will have in its gkrellm_init_plugin() function
	a check to see if gkrellm is getting server data from its server plugin
	counterpart.  This can only happen if gkrellm is run in client mode and
	the server plugin is installed and enabled on the gkrellmd server.  The
	plugin then uses a function pointer to select which function it will call
	for reading its data.  The choice will be between a function that reads
	server sent data lines and another function that can read raw data values
	on the local machine.  The second choice will be made when gkrellm is
	not run in client mode and it can also be made if gkrellm is run in client
	mode and the server plugin counterpart is not enabled.

	2) The second .so file will be, say, plugind.so which if enabled will be
	loaded into the gkrellmd server.  This plugin will use the same raw data
	reading function that the above plugin.so can use.  The install locations
	for gkrellmd server plugins will be similar to normal gkrellm plugin
	locations except that "-gkrellmd" is appended.  For example:
	     /usr/local/lib/gkrellm2/plugins-gkrellmd
	A server plugin then reads data and transmits it over the network to be
	received by its client plugin.  Installed server plugins are not
	automatically enabled and must be enabled by having a "plugin-enable"
	line added in a gkrellmd.conf file.  For testing it can be command
	line enabled with the -pe option.

	It is not uncommon for gkrellmd servers to be installed on machines
	that have glib 1.2 only installed, so it will be nice to have a compile
	option for building server plugins using glib 1.2.  This demo5 has
	a Makefile which permits selecting glib 1.2 and which allows for
	building the server plugin only by entering "make server" and
	"make install-server" since these machines may also not have gtk or
	xlibs installed.



To see how to build/install and all the make options available, run:

    make help



Testing a Client/Server Plugin
------------------------------
At least gkrellm 2.2.0 and gkrellmd 2.2.0 must be installed.

You may not want to actually install since this is a demo, and if you
are testing a plugin under development you also want to be able to
test without installing.  So to test without installing (and to test
on a single machine, ie, no separate server machine is required), 
do this in the compile directory:

1) Load the demo5d server into gkrellmd and dump a log of the load:
      $ gkrellmd -p demo5d.so -plog

   a) Run gkrellm in client mode on the same machine:
      $ gkrellm -p demo5.so -s localhost

   You should see the demo5 panel and its label should be "demo5" which
   indicates the plugin is receiving its data from the expected source which
   in client mode is from the server.

   b) To verify the gkrellmd server is sending demo5 data, run for about
   10 seconds:
      $ gkrellm -p demo5.so -s localhost -d 0x1000 > somelog

   and search for "demo5" lines in the somelog.

   c) To verify the demo5 client plugin is switching to collecting data from
   from the gkrellmd server, run:
      $ gkrellm -p demo5.so -s localhost -debug99

   and you'll get output:

      demo5: gkrellm_init_plugin()
      demo5_client_setup: version 1 0 0
      demo5_client_setup: available
      demo5: have client mode plugins
      demo5: demo5d server is available.
      demo5_data_from_server: value 19
      ...


2) Run the gkrellmd server without the demo5d plugin loaded:
	$ gkrellmd

   Run gkrellm in client mode the same way as in 1-a):

   The demo5 panel label should be "local: demo5" which indicates the demo5
   gkrellm plugin knows it is being run on a gkrellm in client mode, but it
   is not getting data from the server.  It is getting data via its local
   data collection function and is flagging that the data is not server
   based by putting the "local" into the label.

   If you run gkrellm as in 1-c) the output will be:

      demo5: gkrellm_init_plugin()
      demo5: have client mode plugins
      demo5: demo5d server is not available.


3) If you just run the plugin in gkrellm not in client mode:
	gkrellm -p demo5.so

   The panel label will again be just "demo5" indicating that the demo5
   plugin is getting its data from the expected source which is local when
   not in client mode.



But if you do install the demo5d.so server plugin, try these gkrellmd runs:

1) List installed plugins and exit:
	gkrellmd -plist

2) Dump a log of the plugin enable process:
	gkrellmd -plog

3) Now enable the plugin:
	gkrellmd -plog -pe demo5d

4) Edit a gkrellmd.conf and enable the plugin there by adding the line:
	plugin-enable demo5d

   And then run gkrellmd again:
	gkrellmd -plog

The gkrellmd.conf file may be any of:

   ~/.gkrellmd.conf
   /usr/local/etc/gkrellmd.conf
   /etc/gkrellmd.conf
